update: Kotlin Compose compiler (#112)
JetBrains/kotlin-multiplatform-dev-docs: topics/compose/compose-compiler.md

[//]: # (title: Compose compiler)

<!-- this tip should be moved lower and possibly reworded after the 2.0.0 release -->
> The Jetpack Compose compiler [is merged into the Kotlin repository]() (TODO link to Google) as of Kotlin version 2.0.0-RC2.
> This helps with smoother releases of the Compose compiler, as it will ship simultaneously with Kotlin and
> will always be compatible with Kotlin of the same version.
>
{type="tip"}

To use the Kotlin Compose compiler in your project, add it to the `plugins{}` block in your `build.gradle.kts` file:

```kotlin
plugins {
   //...
   id("org.jetbrains.kotlin.plugin.compose")
}
```

> When applied together with the Android Gradle plugin, the Kotlin Compose plugin will override the coordinates of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When applied together with the Android Gradle plugin, the Kotlin Compose Compiler plugin will override the coordinates of the
```

   > If you have any of them set up with `freeCompilerArgs`, for example, Gradle will report a duplicate options error.
   >
   {type="warning"}

## Compose compiler options DSL

The Compose compiler Gradle plugin offers an options DSL.
You can use it to configure the compiler in the `composeCompiler{}` block of the `build.gradle.kts` file for the module
you're applying the plugin to, for example:

```kotlin
composeCompiler {
   enableStrongSkippingMode = true
}
```

### generateFunctionKeyMetaClasses

Type: `Property<Boolean>`
Default: `false`

If `true`, generate function key meta classes with annotations indicating the functions and their group keys.

### includeSourceInformation

Type: `Property<Boolean>`
Default: `false`

If `true`, include source information in generated code.

Records source information that can be used for tooling to determine the source location of the corresponding composable function.
This option does not affect the presence of symbols or line information normally added by the Kotlin compiler;
it only controls source information added by the Kotlin Compose compiler.

> ### metricsDestination

Reviewer 2: Can you update the docs according to https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin/commit/016300e17c6cb2ecfe67c7a180a1e30057d15da5? 

Seems like the original javadoc had the same comment for both metrics and reports destination parameters.

[//]: # (title: Compose compiler)

<!-- this tip should be moved lower and possibly reworded after the 2.0.0 release -->

> > The Compose compiler is merged into the Kotlin repository as of Kotlin version 2.0.0-RC2.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> The Compose compiler has been merged into the Kotlin repository since Kotlin 2.0.0-RC2.
```

> This helps smooth the migration of your projects to Kotlin 2.0, as the Compose compiler will ship simultaneously
> with Kotlin from now on and will always be compatible with Kotlin of the same version.
>
{type="tip"}

The new Compose compiler is supplemented by the new Compose compiler Gradle plugin, which simplifies setup and offers
easier access to compiler options.

> When applied together with the Android Gradle plugin, this Compose compiler plugin will override the coordinates

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When applied with the Android Gradle plugin (AGP), this Compose compiler plugin will override the coordinates
```

of the Compose compiler supplied automatically by AGP.

To use it in your project, apply the plugin for each module that uses Compose. See the migration instructions below:

* [Migrating a Compose Multiplatform project](#migrating-a-compose-multiplatform-project)
* [Migrating a Jetpack Compose project](#migrating-a-jetpack-compose-project)
* [Compose Compiler options DSL](#compose-compiler-options-dsl)

## Migrating a Compose Multiplatform project

Compose Multiplatform is going to support the Compose compiler plugin in the %composeEapVersion%-beta03 release,

> to be released soon after Kotlin 2.0.0-RC2.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
which will be released soon after Kotlin 2.0.0-RC2.
```

Starting with %composeEapVersion%-beta03, you should apply the `org.jetbrains.kotlin.plugin.compose` plugin to each
module that uses the `org.jetbrains.compose` plugin:

1. Add the Compose compiler plugin to the [Gradle version catalog](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/platforms.html#sub:conventional-dependencies-toml):

    ```Ini
    [versions]
    # ...
    kotlin = "2.0.0-RC2"
    
    [plugins]
    # ...
    jetbrainsCompose = { id = "org.jetbrains.compose", version.ref = "compose-plugin" }
    kotlinMultiplatform = { id = "org.jetbrains.kotlin.multiplatform", version.ref = "kotlin" }
    compose-compiler = { id = "org.jetbrains.kotlin.plugin.compose", version.ref = "kotlin" }
    ```

2. Add the plugin to the root `build.gradle.kts` file:

    ```kotlin
    plugins {
        // ...
        alias(libs.plugins.jetbrainsCompose) apply false
        alias(libs.plugins.compose.compiler) apply false
    }
    ```

3. Apply the plugin to every module that uses Compose Multiplatform:

    ```kotlin
    plugins {
        // ...
        alias(libs.plugins.jetbrainsCompose)
        alias(libs.plugins.compose.compiler)
    }
    ```

> 4. If you are using compiler options for the Jetpack Compose compiler, they should now be set in the `composeCompiler{}` block.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. If you are using compiler options for the Jetpack Compose compiler, set them in the `composeCompiler {}` block.
```

   See [Compose Compiler options DSL](#compose-compiler-options-dsl) for reference.

   > The plugin provides defaults for several compiler options that were only specified manually before.
   > If you have any of them set up with `freeCompilerArgs`, for example, Gradle will report a duplicate options error.
   >
   {type="warning"}

> To try Compose compiler 2.0.0 with the stable version of Compose Multiplatform (1.6.2 or older), use this configuration:

Reviewer 3: Maybe a subheader for this part? like "Test Compose compiler" to highlight and distinguish from the previous setup

> To try Compose compiler 2.0.0 with the stable version of Compose Multiplatform (1.6.2 or older), use this configuration:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To try the Compose compiler 2.0.0 with the stable version of Compose Multiplatform (1.6.2 or older), use this configuration:
```

```kotlin
compose {
    kotlinCompilerPlugin = "org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-compose-compiler-plugin-embeddable:2.0.0-RC2"
}
```

> This configuration will be deprecated with the stable 1.6.10 release:
> you will have to apply the `org.jetbrains.kotlin.plugin.compose` plugin instead.
> 
{type="note"}

## Migrating a Jetpack Compose project

For Android modules that do not rely on Compose Multiplatform: 

1. Add the Compose compiler plugin to the [Gradle version catalog](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/platforms.html#sub:conventional-dependencies-toml):

    ```Ini
    [versions]
    # ...
    kotlin = "2.0.0-RC2"
    
    [plugins]
    # ...
    org-jetbrains-kotlin-android = { id = "org.jetbrains.kotlin.android", version.ref = "kotlin" }
    compose-compiler = { id = "org.jetbrains.kotlin.plugin.compose", version.ref = "kotlin" }
    ```

2. Add the plugin to the root `build.gradle.kts` file:

    ```kotlin
    plugins {
        // ...
        alias(libs.plugins.compose.compiler) apply false
    }
    ```

3. Apply the plugin to every module that uses Jetpack Compose:

    ```kotlin
    plugins {
        // ...
        alias(libs.plugins.compose.compiler)
    }
    ```

> 4. If you use the Android build feature in your Gradle configuration (`android.buildFeatures.compose = true`),

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. If you use the Android build feature in your Gradle configuration (`android.buildFeatures.compose = true`)
```

   or directly reference the old Maven artifacts, you'll need to update these references:

   * Change `androidx.compose.compiler:compiler` to `org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-compose-compiler-plugin-embeddable`
   * Change `androidx.compose.compiler:compiler-hosted` to `org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-compose-compiler-plugin`

> 5. If you are using compiler options for the Jetpack Compose compiler, they should now be set in the `composeCompiler{}` block.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
5. If you are using compiler options for the Jetpack Compose compiler, set them in the `composeCompiler {}` block.
```

   See [Compiler options](#compose-compiler-options-dsl) for reference.

   > The plugin provides defaults for several compiler options that were only specified manually before.
   > If you have any of them set up with `freeCompilerArgs`, for example, Gradle will report a duplicate options error.
   >
   {type="warning"}

## Compose compiler options DSL

> The Compose compiler Gradle plugin offers an options DSL.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Compose compiler Gradle plugin offers DSL with different options.
```

> You can use it to configure the compiler in the `composeCompiler{}` block of the `build.gradle.kts` file for the module

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can use it to configure the compiler in the `composeCompiler {}` block of the `build.gradle.kts` file for the module
```

you're applying the plugin to, for example:

```kotlin
composeCompiler {
   enableStrongSkippingMode = true
}
```

### generateFunctionKeyMetaClasses

> Type: `Property<Boolean>`

Author: Made it separate paragraphs with bold for "Type" and "Default". There are entries without a default value, this way it's more consistent.

Default: `false`

If `true`, generate function key meta classes with annotations indicating the functions and their group keys.

### includeSourceInformation

Type: `Property<Boolean>`
Default: `false`

If `true`, include source information in generated code.

Records source information that can be used for tooling to determine the source location of the corresponding composable function.
This option does not affect the presence of symbols or line information normally added by the Kotlin compiler;
it only controls source information added by the Compose compiler.

### metricsDestination

Type: `DirectoryProperty`

When a directory is specified, the Compose compiler will use the directory to dump [compiler metrics](https://github.com/androidx/androidx/blob/androidx-main/compose/compiler/design/compiler-metrics.md#reports-breakdown).
They can be useful for debugging and optimizing your application's runtime performance:

> the metrics show which of your composable functions are skippable, which are restartable, which are readonly, etc.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the metrics show which composable functions are skippable, restartable, read-only, and so on.
```

The [reportsDestination](#reportsdestination) option allows dumping descriptive reports as well.

For a deep dive into the compiler metrics, see this [Composable metrics blog post](https://chrisbanes.me/posts/composable-metrics/).

### reportsDestination

Type: `DirectoryProperty`

When a directory is specified, the Compose compiler will use the directory to dump [compiler metrics reports](https://github.com/androidx/androidx/blob/androidx-main/compose/compiler/design/compiler-metrics.md#reports-breakdown).
They can be useful for optimizing your application's runtime performance:

> the reports show which of your composable functions are skippable, which are restartable, which are readonly, etc.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the reports show which composable functions are skippable, restartable, read-only, and so on.
```

The [metricsDestination](#metricsdestination) option allows dumping raw metrics.

For a deep dive into the compiler metrics, see this [Composable metrics blog post](https://chrisbanes.me/posts/composable-metrics/).

### enableIntrinsicRemember

Type: `Property<Boolean>`
Default: `false`

If `true`, enable intrinsic remember performance optimization.

> Intrinsic remember is an optimization mode which inlines `remember` invocations and replaces `.equals` comparison for keys

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Intrinsic remember is an optimization mode which inlines `remember` invocations and replaces `.equals` comparisons for keys
```

with comparisons of the `$changed` meta parameter when possible.

> This results in fewer slots being used and fewer comparisons being done at runtime.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This results in fewer slots being used and fewer comparisons being made at runtime.
```

### enableNonSkippingGroupOptimization

Type: `Property<Boolean>`
Default: `false`

If `true`, remove groups around non-skipping composable functions.

> This is an experimental optimization that improves the runtime performance of your application by skipping

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This optimization improves the runtime performance of your application by skipping
```

Reviewer 3: Experimental status is mentioned below as well

unnecessary groups around composables which do not skip (and thus do not require a group).
This optimization will remove the groups, for example, around functions explicitly marked as `@NonSkippableComposable`
and functions that are implicitly not skippable (inline functions and functions that return a non-`Unit` value such as `remember`).

> This feature is considered experimental and is thus disabled by default.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This feature is considered [Experimental](supported-platforms.md#core-kotlin-multiplatform-technology-stability-levels) and is thus disabled by default.
```

Reviewer 3: could be a warning

### enableStrongSkippingMode

Type: `Property<Boolean>`
Default: `false`

> If `true`, enable strong skipping mode.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If `true`, enable Strong Skipping mode.
```

> Strong Skipping is an experimental mode that improves the runtime performance of your application by skipping unnecessary

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Strong Skipping is an [Experimental](supported-platforms.md#core-kotlin-multiplatform-technology-stability-levels) mode that improves the runtime performance of your application by skipping unnecessary
```

invocations of composable functions whose parameters have not changed.

> For example, composables with unstable parameters become skippable and lambdas with unstable captures will be memoized.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, composables with unstable parameters become skippable, and lambdas with unstable captures are memoized.
```

> For details, see the [description for Strong Skipping Mode](https://github.com/androidx/androidx/blob/androidx-main/compose/compiler/design/strong-skipping.md)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For details, see the [description of Strong Skipping mode](https://github.com/androidx/androidx/blob/androidx-main/compose/compiler/design/strong-skipping.md)
```

in Androidx GitHub repo.

### stabilityConfigurationFile

Type: `RegularFileProperty`

Path to the stability configuration file.
For details, see [Stability configuration file](https://developer.android.com/develop/ui/compose/performance/stability/fix#configuration-file)

> in Jetpack Compose documentation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
in the Jetpack Compose documentation.
```

### includeTraceMarkers

Type: `Property<Boolean>`
Default: `false`

If `true`, include composition trace markers in the generated code.

> Compose compiler can inject additional tracing information into the bytecode, which allows showing composable functions

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Compose compiler can inject additional tracing information into the bytecode, which allows it to show composable functions
```

in the Android Studio system trace profiler.

For details, see this [Android Developers blog post](https://medium.com/androiddevelopers/jetpack-compose-composition-tracing-9ec2b3aea535).

### targetKotlinPlatforms

Type: `SetProperty<KotlinPlatformType>`

Indicates Kotlin platforms to which the Compose compiler plugin should be applied.
By default, the plugin is applied to all Kotlin platforms.

> To enable only one specific Kotlin platform (for example, Kotlin/JVM):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To enable only one specific Kotlin platform, for example, Kotlin/JVM:
```

```kotlin
composeCompiler {
   targetKotlinPlatforms.set(setOf(KotlinPlatformType.jvm))
}
```

> To disable the plugin for one or more Kotlin platforms (for example, Kotlin/Native and Kotlin/JS):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To disable the plugin for one or more Kotlin platforms, for example, Kotlin/Native and Kotlin/JS:
```
